Almost done with this module. Now I want to show you one thing you can improve which is not directly
related to react native but something I want to draw your attention to.
If we remove all these places we got here,
so I go through the list and I simply get rid of all of them,
then this does of course work just fine,
right
we can easily do this,
we get no problem with that,
all these places can be removed without any issues, that's fine
and no we got no more places. But if we now visit firebase and we reload this storage page and we go into
the places folder which is where we store everything, we see we got all these files still because we
have no code to delete files. In our places action creator where we remove places, we just sent a delete
request to our firebase database, which is why the database of course is clean,
there we actually have no content in it but the storage as I just showed you isn't.
Now obviously we can manually now select all images and delete them but that's not a solution for a real
app,
you don't know which files you can delete,
so the idea would be to instead add the path to the file, to the data you store in your database, so that
you can use that information when everything is deleted to also delete that file.
Now one thing that will help you with that are firebase real time database triggers.
Now this is simply something using firebase cloud functions which we already did to create our own API
endpoint,
we use the http trigger for that, you can also find more documentation on that here, I'm in the firebase
docs but real time triggers are triggered whenever something changes in the database.
There you can essentially just set up a function with the database as a trigger, specify to which parts
in database you want to listen,
you see you can have dynamic variables in there too
and then you got a couple of hooks, to be precise you got on write, create, update and delete, delete
would be interesting for us,
you could fire a function whenever something is deleted, get access to the data which was deleted,
get that image path you stored and then use that information to actually delete everything or delete
the file in your bucket,
so let's do that now.
Now to get there, you need to have a connection between the uploaded file and the database entry,
we do have this connection, it's that download url which we already get back from our cloud function
here,
there we get back
this image url which we then store in the database.
Now we would need something like an image ID or an image name to really have the full name of the image
so that we can later use that name to delete it when we delete this place.
For that, we could go to our firebase function here and we return this image url here,
now of course we could return the image name here too
and for that, we just need to get the name but the name just is uuid
and then the extension is jpg,
you could even get the full path, so we could just copy that and return an image path property here,
like this,
it's a string,
now we can run firebase deploy to ship this new version.
And now we get back the path of the image, we can now of course also store that path,
so in the places file here where we have the image url and that is the url to view it
not the url in our bucket,
we could also store the image path here and get it from the parsed response
image path,
so this property we just added to our return value here.
Now we would also store that path in the database
and this of course allows us to make sure that when we delete it, that we also try to delete it on our
storage.
Now to achieve this, the best way when using firebase and that is very specific of course would be to
create another cloud function which uses a real time database trigger,
so let's write this function now.
I'll add it in the index.js file, you could put it in a separate file which you then need to import here
and in the end hook up with this export something syntax in the index.js file because that's the
only file firebase will look at
but I'll add it in this same file.
So here I'll export my other file which I'll name delete image, my other function I mean, use the functions
keyword and then not https but database to tell firebase that I want to use a database related
hook or event. Then we need to use ref to specify the path of the function we want to listen for events
and I want to listen for events in places and there I'll add a variable, a dynamic segment with curly
braces where I get the place ID then because remember our places data has all these cryptic automatically
generated IDs.
Now whenever something is deleted in that path I want to get notified, so I'll execute on delete here
and on delete takes a function which receives the event as an argument and then allows us to do something
on that event.
Here first of all, I want to get my place data, I can get that from the event object, there
there is a data property, that would refer to the data after the event occurred though.
Now after the delete event,
nothing will be left.
Thankfully there also is a previous property on the data object which gives us access to the previous
data snapshot and we can use that snapshot with the val method to get that data, that simply required,
the val method is simply required to get the javascript object underlying this data.
Then we can get the image path by accessing place data image path
and then we can again use the cloud storage,
we're setting up cloud storage outside of the function so I can use it here too.
I can create a new bucket here and basically use the same code I used in the other cloud function,
this line here where I create a bucket with my bucket url, I'm going to copy that and then close
this function again to have more room,
so I'm initializing a bucket here and now I want to use that bucket to delete a file. For that I can
call bucket, then file and I pass the path to the file,
so image path in this case
and then simply delete and this returns a promise. We can of course chain then and catch to react
to errors,
I'll keep it simple here,
one thing you need to do though is you need to return that bucket here or this promise to be precise
because cloud functions that do something asynchronous need to return a promise so that the function
knows when it's done
otherwise it might shut down too early and cancel your operation.
Thereafter you can rerun firebase deploy to deploy the updated version or deploy this new function essentially
and once this is done, we can try it out and we can try creating a new place here and hopefully then
deleting the image if we delete the place.
Deployment finished so now I can pick an image,
maybe these plants, locate myself and test this and share the place
and now it's getting interesting once this was done so once this was uploaded and we can go to find place
or we're going there automatically.
Now if I delete this, the hope is that when I go to storage again, that this image also is deleted and
that looks good,
I got no files here in storage, no folder,
all the files were deleted.
So this now ensures that we indeed do delete a file whenever we delete the data belonging to it.
So a tiny addition,
of course if you're not using firebase, you will probably have your own API endpoint where you send the
please delete my data request
anyways and that would then be the place where you want to trigger a job to delete the file.